in the screen there and now as Leslie
mentioned it's the 6:05 northbound at
this point it doesn't look like we
haven't seen reckless driving but
clearly much faster than the speed that
they should be going and it's a failure
to yield as well Bruce Thomas a law
enforcement expert is with us he's got
27 years of law enforcement and he is
he's been with us before Bruce what do
you see at this point I mean you know
we're on freeways and right now the
traffic doesn't seem to be too bad yeah
you know at this point you're chasing a
stolen vehicle CHP is well versed in
what they're doing at this point they'll
just maintain the distance and follow
the vehicle as you don't want to
endanger anybody's life yes and I'm
looking right now you can see clearly in
the driver's seat the person who was
making some movements there I don't know
if he's smoking a cigarette using a
phone or whatever but this is the first
glimpse that we are getting of the
suspect of the stolen vehicle being
pursued now by CHP started in Costa Mesa
now in Cerritos Bruce what can you tell
us about I don't know if I see a second
person a passenger perhaps in the car
but what can you tell us about the
mindset of a person who is being pursued
by authorities and will try anything you
know what they ultimately want to do is
they want to get away and unfortunately
that doesn't happen ninety percent of
the time they're just trying to live
their last moments of freedom smoke a
cigarette they do talk on the cell phone
talks of loved ones or you know in the
best case scenario maybe try to
negotiate their safe surrender as we
look at one of the pursuits vehicles
behind this Audi it doesn't look like
they're pulling back at this point and
just monitoring it does seem as if they
are actively pursuing this person at
what point do you start to as CHP or the
lead agency starts to back off a little
bit and decide that okay you know what
was this follow from from our air
vehicles yeah what's important is you
kind of the person in the vehicle
dictates your
response what you have in this case is
he's driving in a good clip
he's driving above the speed limit but
he's not driving crazy so at this point
CHP is going to stay behind him gonna
let him know that we are there you're
not going anywhere and we're not going
anywhere but we would back off if he
started doing some very dangerous
maneuvers like we've seen in pursuits in
the past when a suspect is on the
freeway they don't put out spike strips
they don't do pit maneuvers what can
they do to stop a suspect like this yeah
you know it's very hard on a freeway
because you're you're speeds are so much
higher than that of surface streets plus
with all the other vehicles on the
freeway it's hard to set up a clear
operational zone to put a spike strip or
use a pit maneuver if he were to slow
down and they were to make those things
happen
then they could do a pit maneuver but
you also don't want to cause any more
damage or injuries to anybody there's
more importantly the public on this so
they're just gonna stay behind them
they're gonna monitor this they're gonna
roll with their lights and siren till it
the other vehicles know that there is an
emergency going on well Bruce what did
we just watch there one CHP officer
passes another and in the fast in the
carpool lane and is what is what are the
techniques here what are the tactics
that they're doing with these pursuit
vehicles did you know that did you see
that were you able to see that in your
monitor yes I did what you'll see a lot
of times are the handoffs from one CHP
jurisdictional area to another
they can also be moving on ahead to
maybe set up traffic brakes to give them
possibly an operational zone where they
may be able to pit the vehicle if it is
slow enough and that vehicle as we see
is moving over to the right hand side
perhaps may be trying to take an exit
but the vehicle did start just recently
in Cerritos not begin but it was in
Cerritos now the 405 at Alondra near
Norwalk crossing over into the left lane
and not well not a lot of cars there
yeah and now you're starting to see a
little
a bit more I don't want to necessarily
say reckless driving but certainly
dangerous driving in the fact that he's
crossing over six seven lanes of traffic
it does look as if now Bruce that we're
getting into more congestion and that's
going to potentially create some
dangerous scenarios for this guy as you
see driving down on this shoulder into
the lane that's meant for merging
traffic so so many people are going to
be all of a sudden surprised by a person
driving this much faster than they are
and that leads to the danger for the
bystanders yeah I'm very much so and
that's why you'll see a CHP with their
license siren and at night they'll use
their spotlights to warn other drivers
that there's something coming that could
be a dangerous to you so in this case
this guy is now showing a Wankel
disregard for the public safety and for
the safety of himself and the pursuing
officers so he wants to get away and he
is now looks like taking an exit from
the freeway we were told that and and
cars are stopped we're gonna see what he
does as he approaches doesn't look like
he can get by this let's watch and see
crossing over the curb into oncoming
traffic
to get off of that freeway somewhere in
Cerritos or Norwalk we are told it's not
clear what street this is right here the
CHP in pursuit due to Baker Studebaker
Road there it is Studebaker Road near
Florence Avenue yeah and probably
Norwalk or Cerritos so at this point
Bruce the CHP continue to be the lead
agency on this because it was on the
freeway and until this is under under
wraps they they pretty much control this
or will they hand it off to other
agencies on the disappoint CHP would be
the primary agency in this but however
it's your mutual aid they've been in
contact with the sheriff's and Norwalk
to let them know that hey the pursuit is
coming your way we're about to answer
your streets so be advised we may
request assistance from the Sheriff's
Department and this person is driving
erratically and driving at a very high
rate of speed on surface streets this is
on on Florence Avenue
and the CHP continues behind him Bruce
what is the mindset of a person who in
Los Angeles we have so many pursuits and
mostly they end with the person being
caught and being placed under arrest and
and sent to jail why does a person a
suspect believe that they might be the
one to get away you know the mind the
mindset is boggling to law enforcement
you're not going to outrun the
helicopter you're not gonna outrun the
radio you're not going to get away and
ultimately what happens in these
pursuits is they just kind of give up
maybe they get tired they get bored I
don't know but you know the last thing
we want to do in any pursuit is have the
public endangered so that you know
something happens we're an accident and
the public gets hurt because this person
took a car and doesn't want to give up
well I think you've really described the
way we see most of these end and that
it's almost exhaustion its you you hate
the chase because there is the
possibility somebody's going to get hurt
in many cases people are absolutely
recklessly they don't care about their
safety nor anyone else but it seems to
me the bulk of them simply end without
further incident where the person in the
car just finally has made the phone
calls had the cigarette and it's just
like okay I'm done but that moment right
there is incredibly dangerous they went
through an intersection against the
light so maybe we don't really know we
can't conjecture as far as what is in
this person's mind but clearly at some
point this got to stop because these
people are these guys putting a lot of
people at risk yeah you know you're
sooner than later yeah you'd hit the
nail right on the head in this case you
know you have a watch commander you have
a supervisor in the pursuit and they're
monitoring it and if it gets to the
point where it's just too dangerous they
will call the pursuit off or they'll
cancel it or 10:22 it is they say and
what will happen is the helicopter will
go into surveillance mode and they'll
follow them and we see a legal turn
right there
left-hand turn crossing over into the
other side of the street now on
shoemaker Avenue
but this was on the southbound 405 at
Harbor Boulevard in the 73 South
northbound 405 then the 605 northbound
and the northbound 405 at Alondra in
Norwalk off now in Santa Fe Springs on
shoemaker Avenue several CHP officers
behind pausing just a little bit being a
little bit cautious going through this
intersection and now making a left-hand
turn on Telegraph Road that might
depending on the direction he's going
that might take him back to the 605
possibly but at this point he's just
been driving on surface streets so he's
left to the freeway and he's been
driving around Cerritos Santa Fe Springs
clearly Downey believed he was in Downey
there for a moment so many cases these
people will drive around in areas that
they are familiar with maybe possibly
try to get out and make a run for it
but Ben since he's been on the surface
streets we've really seen stuff like
this I'd want where that was a turn lane
but he has he has gone into oncoming
traffic to get away he has jumped over
the median at a couple of spots to try
to make a u-turn
so clearly while maybe not as reckless
as some have we as we've seen certainly
still dangerous yeah his speeds in his
driving manner or just to the point
where if I was watch commander and all I
have is an information based on a stolen
vehicle I might back the units off
cancel the pursuit and had the hell of a
helicopter going to a tracking mode and
oh he's coming to a stop now making a
left-hand turn over the median good I
said up there nope over the median
doesn't look like anybody's in the
passenger side so now what happens when
you're doing something like this yeah oh
now Bruce that's what you're talking
about they have an opportunity when
things slow down and he's going to oh
there they have aggressively pinned him
and he continues to make his move look
at the damage to the Audi there and now
oddly enough the police officers are
kind of out of position so so now what
Bruce well at this point you know you
tried to
you were successful in the pit maneuver
and it can turn into a barricade or a
standoff with the suspect well he's
certainly the least got right back
behind him so so does that give you an
indication as an officer as we've talked
about the mindset prior to now but that
seems to me to be an indication that
this is not a person who might just get
tired and give up because that is
borderline attempted assault with a
deadly weapon because you you have a
vehicle and he basically went after
police with that vehicle that's correct
what you now have is an assault with a
deadly weapon on a police officer
he just escalated this whole thing from
taking a stolen vehicle as our honors
permission to now from a misdemeanor to
a felony so at this point the police
department CHP sheriff's maybe Downey PD
are not going to back off they really
want this guy and they want to take him
into custody
and they are getting pretty close to him
whereas before they were backing off now
trying to thinking he's going to make a
left turn again and try maybe trying to
pit him at this point he's going on the
opposite side of the street they
probably would want to hurry up and pit
him but through an intersection and back
on the right side of the street now
Santa Fe Springs Telegraph Road so this
has turned up just a little bit as we
continue to watch this and this is this
person has really got in and gotten into
congested traffic you're running into
the lunch hour now where people are
trying probably out and about and CHP
has really gotten much more aggressive
as far as trying to get this stop they
you see the damage to the Audi if you're
just joining us here as we approach I
witness news at 11:00 a.m. you're seeing
officers try to end the pursuit that's
now been going on for about a half an
hour or so and they they damaged the
vehicle when three different CHP SUVs
try to pinch him in and keep him from
being able to go anywhere but he was
able to go forward and Bruce one of the
things that I've been told in the past
you don't want to get directly in front
of the person correct even though it may
seem like that's a great idea to block
them in that puts that officer at great
risk with somebody like this correct I
mean we saw
not necessarily completely box him in
but they tried to pinch him almost yeah
that's correct so if I mean you never
want to get in front of the suspect
because that current rate at the
terminus a crossfire just safety
concerns are huge but the officer now
has nowhere to go but is there being his
or her vehicle so but what I have seen
in the last couple of pursuits is CHP
San Bernardino sheriff's have been very
much more aggressive in trying to end
these pursuits with the PIT maneuver
pinching individual here and we don't
know if the suspect is armed we also
don't know whether this was a carjacking
or simply a stolen vehicle from from
Park to location so that would weigh
heavily into how they are trying to
apprehend him and if they know if he's
armed or not yeah Leslie and Phillip you
know you have a stolen vehicle however
the suspects actions have dictated
there's possibly more there he could be
a parolee if he wanted for various other
felony crimes and in this case it may be
not just a stolen vehicle well this is a
this is going to be an interesting
moment here because now they have that
we saw that there was a chance maybe at
a pit but then you look once they made
the turn and there were too many other
cars around because you have to find
this opportunity to pit him without
hurting anyone that's driving up
obviously the whole mission is to end
this without anyone getting hurt
including the suspect but you see a
moment like this where you might get an
open stretch of road and then a turn
comes up maybe that our camera is
breaking up just a little bit there but
this person has really been reckless as
far as putting other people at risk the
way he's navigating some of these turns
I mean we've seen him jump over the
center to bite the center median there
we've see him drive through a parking
lot and each time that it seems as if
there might and seems as if there might
be a chance for a pit they've been not
been able to do it because of crowded
conditions this looks like they've
pulled back just a little bit now
because the CHP was right right in the
shot now there he is now again he's
going through several intersections and
these intersections are really getting
congested
it's it's incredible that he has not had
harmed anyone yet we did see that he ran
into a few cars but this is just he's
now getting on to Interstate five this
Santa Fe Springs interstate five getting
back on the interstate southbound and I
can't imagine getting on the five is
going fine things not better for this
person because the five is always when
your regular can be what you want to
avoid the five but somehow by going
southbound maybe he's heading away from
the Headley conject congested area but
still the five so so many pockets of
slowing and he continues to just move
across lanes at his own leisure how are
they able Bruce - we just passed another
CHP officer a CHP patrol car on the side
of the freeway how are they able to map
out where he's going to be and then
place officers where he can just pass
them up you know it's it's just radio
technology and the fact that he's now
going a certain direction so you have
other units in the area and they're
letting them know he could possibly be
coming your way
southbound northbound the five in this
case so they're just pre-staging
themselves to possibly join the pursuit
maybe take it over and exchange out so
in this case it's just a matter of pre
positioning well Bruce they are now
approaching the 605 is on the five South
approaching the 605 but Yusef for people
who are just joining us they see the
damage on that vehicle and we actually
have video queued up of just a few
minutes ago when this person was trying
to get away so the live image is on your
left and the right is where just a few
moments ago we thought that they might
be able to end this this is the section
where he pulled through a parking lot
officers had a chance to get him pinned
in you see that he hits one person it's
just a bystander and then the officers
thought they might have him you see them
try to pinch him there but as Bruce had
told us you don't want to get in front
of a person this willing to cause harm
to others he could
run-over hurt the officer moved on but
that image on the right is video and
then now on the left you see that live
shot so we'll go back to that full you
can see the bumper that's damaged and
then of course you see the car but it
clearly Bruce is not affecting the way
this car handles Bruce how how many CHP
patrol cars would you say are involved
in this chase we can just see with the
camera shot possibly three but how many
would you say in total are involved in
trying to take this person down you know
I think if they're 7hd pulled out you
probably would say maybe six or seven
because you know you have one person in
the vehicle
he's on that he does not want to go to
jail okay let me interrupt you here look
at that look what he's done he's now not
on his side of the freeway he's actually
gone into a construction area and turned
around on the freeway which as I look at
this now I'm trying that's the area
that's under construction there again
we're on the fight he was on the five
South and everybody that's driven those
but that was insane yeah his actions now
are bordering on the cancelling of this
pursuit he's just endangering too many
lives and so I'm sure CHP is evaluating
that maybe to back off but they also
might have some additional information
about this suspect
besides this is so above maybe assault
with a deadly weapon on the DL which is
one of the charges for sure so they
would not back off if they knew for sure
that he was armed and in this case you
cannot let a felon who's armed we like
that you have to take this person into
custody for the public safety well and
as you mentioned I mean it's now a
felony certainly felony charges due to
the fact that he so aggressively went at
officers with that vehicle which is
considered a weapon at this point now
he's transitioning off of the five it
looks like he's going to the South 605
so before he gets on the freeway they
may try pit right here because now he's
got a chance if they can get inside that
bumper but nope he made that corner a
little bit better than the SUV he's got
a vehicle that works about
in some of those tight spots like that
sports car and then you've got the SUV
behind him so now we're back on the 605
and I believe I was told 605 North is it
605 North in Downey South I apologize
now 605 South but now you're looking at
yeah Bruce what are your thoughts right
now as you're looking at this you know
this is a pursuit that you have to
maintain and continue and I know there's
a lot great deal of discipline and
anxiety being shown by CHP but in this
case this guy is going to go to jail
it's just a matter of when and hopefully
he does not hurt anybody in that process
well that ends up being you know the
thing it's and and and you're right
Bruce we don't necessarily know at this
point what CHP knows about this pursuit
suspect we know that the vehicles
reported as stolen and at its early
stages this person seemed to be content
to just not turn himself in but now it
has escalated to the point where this
person not only is driving incredibly
risk recklessly putting other people at
risk but in a sense we've watched an
assault on an officer when the person
tried to get away after the officers had
had pinched him in so we're waiting to
see how this is going to end with
everyone this is Eyewitness News at
11:00 a.m. we're joined by Bruce Thomas
a law enforcement expert this pursuit
has now been going on roughly 45 minutes
and initially Leslie you even pointed
out the casual nature with the person
inside that we can actually see quite
quite well here he was very casual but
certainly things changed the cigarettes
perhaps sometimes we do see that but we
also have what we saw just a few minutes
ago the construction-site video you can
see he goes into a construction area it
looks like it's going to be a dead end
and then makes a u-turn and gets back on
the freeway crossing over some barriers
getting back on the freeway and there
are several cars on this freeway it is
congested and he is
leaving around we have seen him and a
number of traffic violations from those
high speeds and reckless driving to
driving on the wrong side of the street
driving on to off ramps on the wrong
side and getting pinned between those
two CHP vehicles and and going through
intersections the wrong way it is this
is a highly tense situation and very
dangerous Bruce when you on some of the
times when we really zoom in we can see
what is some movement by the driver
there was a moment ago where he didn't
have his hands on the wheel he was
actually steering with his knee but the
airships with CHP they they're flying
lower than our crew yes and so are they
making an effort to try to get an eye
inside that truck inside that car and
see even more so I know the back windows
are tinted but do you think that is that
an attempt on their part will they try
to find out what's going on in there oh
definitely they want to gather as much
information on this driver and the
inside the vehicle as they can because
at this point this has become a huge
officer safety concern it's not just a
stolen vehicle just as a traffic stop
it's not a routine traffic stop this has
been escalated on a scale one to ten to
attend this guy wants to get away he's
assaulted police officers in the process
so there's definitely more to this and
embrace it as someone who has managed
pursuits like this are there officers
who are saying does the the watch
commander or whoever's managing this
says okay we're going to give this ten
more minutes if it escalates so we're
going to pull off and then other people
are saying no just give me give me 15
more minutes I can get this guy what's
going on and in the inner circle yeah
Leslie that's a great comment there
because the officers are not in charge
of the pursuit they are following the
vehicle they're driving with lights and
siren they're involved in the pursuit
but the pursuit is being managed by a
supervisor someone that may not be in
the pursuit which may be in an office
watching this on your coverage and
talking and hearing the radio traffic
so they're managing the pursuit and
that's to take the emotion out of their
management skills
well we're westbound 91 at this point
and you can see from air seven that's
giving you the speed with which at which
this driver is going and he said between
the mid 70s now dropping down to 60 so
he must be as we can't really see by
zooming in like that it looks like he's
left the freeway so he's taken maybe the
Riverside exit but has out of our view
here at this point and dropped speeds
down and there he is so now he's
revealed so he's left the freeway once
again looks like he's on Bellflower and
he is heading eastbound it looks like
roughly eastbound on Bellflower and once
again driving through an intersection
and then here now we'll see what he's
going to do he's gonna get pinched in by
a couple of people and you often see
Bruce and I got to think that's a
variable that police don't like is when
bystanders know what's going on and they
think they're helping so that is an
added risk that you'd like to not see
I'm sure yeah very much so there was
persued I believe last year that ended
in North Hollywood area where a couple
of big rig truckers actually boxed the
suspect in and prevented him from going
through an intersection and he was taken
into custody without incident but we
never ever want the public to intercede
in something like this it's just way too
dangerous
he's on Artesia Boulevard now on surface
streets that CHP patrol car right behind
him coming up to an intersection which
doesn't look all that busy possibly a
PIT maneuver no he makes a right-hand
turn and continues with this chase the
officer looks like he's getting up to
the left side of him but no more cars in
the front and a right-hand turn through
that intersection on palm Street now
there you gotta have got a street where
there were were no cars just off
we'll see how how much this vehicle is
damaged and if it can still be driven
and he's trying and a moment ago he
would I'm curious what's in his hands I
kept wondering what is he doing with his
hands because he's a stirring
he's he was handling something and here
we've got a really good look and that is
so risky for police because what is he
doing at this point I mean am i anything
in this hand I don't want to make any
guesses here but neither do officers
right Bruce I mean you can't you can't
assume anything at this point
that's correct Jenny you're gonna make
unfortunately you're gonna make an
assumption this is a felony suspect
which you know for a fact it's the arms
you don't know but you're going to treat
this as he is armed they're going to
take all necessary precautions and with
lethal weaponry in addition to less than
lethal weaponry back that up also the
k-9 unit is there what are police doing
right now
what's the k-9 unit my foot I'm watching
coverage I'm just a little behind you so
I'm assuming he has stopped okay yes
okay Bruce let's let's set the stage for
you then he stopped it does appear it's
a little difficult from our perspective
to see the topography my guess is that
area that he's pointing at is more
uphill and he can't continue up and it
does look like there are railings behind
him he's not going to be able to go
backwards so he is now it's a standoff
you've got CHP that's got him on one
side and then if you notice there were
CHP on the other side we're in
bellflower we're gonna try to get the
actual it looks like an on-ramp possibly
to the freeway if we could put our and
we are mapping technology is refusing to
get out that's what we are told so
here's here's our street address and it
underneath Solan vehicles okay so it's
palm street so we're looking at palm
street is where he is and when we were
looking at it a moment ago the suspect
in this vehicle we looked right through
the front windshield the suspect was
reaching under the dashboard in the
passenger seat for something we did not
know what he did we don't know if he was
grabbing a weapon but we do know that
that vehicle was used in an assault on
an officer because we saw that happen so
at this point we're trying to figure out
how they're going to get him out of here
and Leslie had asked Bruce what's the
next step in this process
yeah thank you Phillip they're setting
that up for me yeah what you have now is
a barricade you treat this just like you
would a barricaded suspect in a house
they're going to contain it they're
gonna control it they're going to
communicate within it give the suspect
some commands maybe he'll listen maybe
he won't if he doesn't then they're
gonna ask the special enforcement to
neutral aid a SWAT team per se to come
on out and handle this and it appears
that they're in a pretty good position
not a lot of people around no
pedestrians around they're right next to
the freeway or above it as we see and
looks like a building maybe an apartment
or some sort of a business next to it
and shrubbery between them so we are
seeing into the passenger I mean the the
driver's side right now we see some
movement there can't quite make out what
he's doing but he is gesturing and
active in some way Phillip yeah if our
video had continued a little bit more
there we kind of cut it out a little
sooner but our live shot on the left you
can actually see in the window maybe if
we can get air seven to go ahead and
zoom in on that or maybe we don't want
to I'm gonna leave that to our
management team but he is now clearly
communicating with authorities we just
can't see in his hands what he has many
times we want to pull out because we
don't want to show something that is too
extreme so that's maybe why we're not
pushing in right now but he is clearly
communicating with officers the hope
here is I'm assuming Bruce that if they
can talk to him and they can get him to
come out
lay down surrender they're gonna that's
the best possible outcome for all
concerned at this point
yes sir does the best outcome that the
law enforcement can hope for is to not
use force on the suspect to have him
surrender peacefully and not have to
escalate this any further than it's
escalated what what would they be
telling him right now we have about nine
officers a k-9 as well his window is
down we saw him talking to them
and it appears as though officers are
communicating with him what are they
telling him right now basically keep
your hands in plain sight if your
vehicle is running use your off hand or
your left hand possibly to turn the
vehicle off throw the keys out the
window so we know it's not going to go
anywhere keep your hands up and if you
can open the door and surrender and walk
toward us or follow our commands the
vehicle also may have the driver's door
damaged so he may not be able to get out
you might be communicating that to the
officers yeah they're waving him as if
they're that looked like a couple of
them were waving at him to come forward
I'm not sure what they had said but do
you at what point do you believe the
suspect who's done what this guy has
done if he's saying well I can't open
the door because you can't it seems to
me it wouldn't be reasonable to believe
that at face value yeah there are a
couple things they can do they can ask
in this keepers both hands out the
window they can approach using a
ballistic shield which is an
armor-plated type shield or they can
look through with their guns drawn grab
his arms pull them out through the
window and they look a little ugly but
that's actually a safe way to do it or
they may instruct them to go to the
passenger's side but in this case I
would want to keep them on the driver's
side
no I because this way I can't control it
more we might have lost your we might
have lost your phone there Bruce that
was Bruce Thomas there he is okay so why
did you say you would prefer him to be
on the driver's side beyond you can
control it more just because that's what
the officers are that's where the
digital is until you get officers on the
other side of this freeway on-ramp or
off-ramp it's going to be kind of hard
you're just going by what your visual is
and what the helicopter can see also
looks like he's opening in the door now
they do have officers on the other side
the officer who conducted the pit
actually continued forward and
barricaded him on the other side now it
looks as if he's doing exactly what
Bruce had said he's got the keys in his
hand and they're probably going to ask
him to throw those keys out like Bruce
just said a moment ago but he is
and he is completely he keeps putting
his hands down and that can't be
something they want to see yeah no not
at all you want him to comply fully with
your commands the fact that I became I
in there they're letting them know if
you're not going to be cooperative we
will release the k-9 and the k-9 will do
its job
what is he reaching down for uh-huh he
won't drop those keys which I've got to
think is one of the issues they want
based on what Bruce has said his policy
it seems like throw them down why does
he put them in his pocket Bruce you know
and he still use the miles of the car
right they want him away from that guy
well you know there could be drugs
involved in any any number of things but
you can see what officers deal with when
they give someone orders and the person
just that kid keeps doing what they're
doing puts their hands in their pockets
as jittery has keys in their hands they
don't it's never a clean they never just
do exactly what the officers want well
and here's the or this guy keeps acting
as if he and I will tell you this Bruce
I've we've seen it before a lot of these
guys are terrified of the dog and they
don't they're at many times I've seen
them say keep the dog away from me and
that's one of the you know the reasons
they do some of the things they do
except this guy has remained very close
to the vehicle he's kept the keys on his
person and every time he does what you
think is comply he qualifies it almost
like even his legs right now he has
crossed he's very close to that car and
I got to think that's not something you
want no not at all the fact that he's
being extremely uncooperative it's just
another level of defiance by this
suspect I would be not be very surprised
if they did not use some less lethal
weaponry on him son bag beanbag rounds
or possibly released the k-9 to kind of
force the issue here well they've got
him they've got him cuffed now and
they're gonna clear the car at this
point so that was an intense few moments
here and there
make sure that he was alone in his car
it does look like that's what they've
done and he is now being taken into
custody and continuing to shatter away
but they were very cautious as they
approached him with the dog even though
he was on the ground and was
surrendering they had the dog and they
had the the shield so that they wouldn't
get shot and the guns trained on the car
in case there was someone else inside
but now they are clearing that car in
the trunk looking for any possible
weapons or whatever else might be in
that vehicle but it looks like it's over
okay that is that look like there is
that might be damaged from when they
tried to pinch him in it I kind of
looked like gunshots there in the back
window but it also could be damaged from
when they pinched him in so who knows if
shots were ever actually fired in this
but Bruce want to say thanks again to
Bruce Thomas for joining us here to help
us walk through what CHP would be doing
how exactly they would approach this
they got the suspect in custody this is
the best now you've got another look
here of what CHP was dealing with you
had people on lookers looking you know
you're trying to keep everyone safe and
so it does look as if this pursuit is
over that is Palm exit a palm street I
believe is what we said in Bellflower so
if you are in need of driving through
Bellflower and you're coming up on this
area you're gonna probably have to wait
a little bit because they're gonna have
to tow this vehicle out of there you're
gonna have to get everything and the
scene cleared and the investigation
wrapped up at that location so be aware
of that might affect your commute a
little bit fortunately no one was
injured that's such a good job by
officers because he was very erratic
okay well that's that well we've got
scattered showers turning to our weather
right now we've got soggy conditions
look at this a live picture at LAX most
of the action is forecast for the
foothill communities